# Instructions for creating netCDF files from hdf5 mosaics

This document contains instructions for generating netCDF ATL14/15 files from the preliminary mosaic products generated by the regenerate_mosaics.py script



Files ATL14_write2nc.py and ATL15_write2nc.py are located in the [ATL1415/scripts](./scripts/) subdirectory.  
They require an ascii input file, containing directory paths, and parameters for domain (x,t) and
averaging, [input_args.txt](https://gist.github.com/suzanne64/9483ec8cb8f77200dac2062b3a6da428).

Command line syntax:

```bash
>> python3 \<pathto\>/ATL14_write2nc.py @\<pathto\>/input_args.txt   
>> python3 \<pathto\>/ATL15_write2nc.py @\<pathto\>/input_args.txt
```

### Description of the arguments listed in the input_args.txt that are used for writing netCDF files

`-b`        base path to height and surface height change data files. These are the hdf5 files to be consolidated and converted to netCDF. This directory should contain z0.h5 for the ATL14 product. The surface height change values for the ATL15 product are in several files, with names starting with dz and which can include resolution and time lag in the filename, ie. dz_10km_lag1.h5. This is also where the output netCDF files will be written.

`--region`  two character abbreviation for region name. Used to determine gridding projection parameters and is part of output file name.

`--cycles`  four digit integer indicating beginning cycle and ending cycle

`--Release`  three digit integer indicating release of ATL11 data

`--version`  two digit integer indicating version of software (?)

### Output file formats

The output files are in netCDF format. The filenames are

`ATL14_rr_c1c2_100m_rel_vv.nc`    where `rr` is the region, `c1` is beginning cycle, `c2` is ending cycle, `rel` is release and `vv` is version.  
`ATL15_rr_c1c2_xxkm_rel_vv.nc`    where `xx` indicates grid spacing in km. Currently there are four ATL15 output files including 1, 10, 20, 40km grid spacing.

### Size estimates of output files

|                             | Greenland | Svalbard |
|-----------------------------|-----------|----------|
|ATL14_rr_c1c2_100m_rel_vv.nc | 1050 Mb   |  28 Mb   |
|ATL15_rr_c1c2_01km_rel_vv.nc |  343 Mb   |  9.2 Mb  |
|ATL15_rr_c1c2_10km_rel_vv.nc |    3.5 Mb |  0.31 Mb |
|ATL15_rr_c1c2_20km_rel_vv.nc |    1.4 Mb |  0.23 Mb |
|ATL15_rr_c1c2_40km_rel_vv.nc |    0.8 Mb |  0.20 Mb |
